- Where's Jackl?
- I can't...
You were asked a question.
I can't do this. I can't...
(indistinct)
PAGAN PEAK
Hello. My name is Ellie Stocker.
This is my colleague.
Gedeon Winter.
Before the interview begins. I'm
obliged to offer you legal assistance.
You should be aware that the
interview will be recorded
and may be used as
evidence in court.
And may be used as
I don't need anyone. thanks.
OK. let's begin then.
You had no ID on you when you were
arrested. so could you tell us your name?
I have many names.
What do people call you?
Depends on who's
doing the calling.
- Do you have an address for us then?
- The forest.
Where exactly?
The hut?
Yes.
What happened to my hut
is deeply regrettable.
I wasn't trying
to burn anything.
Fire can't destroy everything.
Some things always survive.
You wouldn't have found
me if I hadn't let you.
Is that why you paint
yourself. as camouflage?
- You're hiding?
- No.
OK. let's try a different tack. Why
do you assume we're looking for you?
Well. you have been
looking for me...
Ms Stocker.
You have been looking for me.
And now I'm here. And
that's what matters.
Great.
And now you may ask your questions
and I'll try to answer them
and be as helpful as possible.
And be as helpful as possible.
Do you hunt?
There were many dead
animals around your hut.
I hunt.
In other words.
you own a firearm?
I don't need a firearm.
Do you have a hunting licence?
It would be illegal if you don't.
I try... to keep
things in order.
To bring balance to them.
To kill the sick...
so the healthy can flourish.
You know when an animal is sick?
Yes. you can tell.
Can you tell with people too?
Yes. you can.
Do you enjoy killing?
Death is not something
you need to fear.
It's part of life.
It's a necessity.
To live. you must accept death too.
Otherwise. you're not really alive.
- Do you know a Kai Markstein?
- Yes. he's dead.
He...
suffocated.
How do you know that?
You're not listening to me.
We found this at Kai
Markstein's place.
Can you tell me...
who this drawing
is meant to be of?
That's me.
His admiration for you
must have been huge.
So huge that he painted a
picture of you on his wall?
Obviously. yes.
Did he admire you
to such an extent
that he killed himself for
you. or because of you?
That he killed himself for
I'm not responsible for
the things other people do.
Mr Winter. there are
things that I can see.
Some people. for instance.
carry a lot of...
suffering inside them.
A lot of suffering.
And I see it.
And then I listen and observe.
Then I hear things that
people can't express.
- I don't draw conclusions.
- But you do judge.
- I don't.
- I wouldn't be so sure.
How do you know Kai Markstein?
He sought me out.
- So. you wanted him to find you?
- Yes. I...
I let it happen.
I listened to him.
I protected him.
And I tried to soothe his mind.
as long as it made sense.
I only show myself to my pupils
for as long as it takes...
- to complete my work.
- What is this work?
- To complete my work.
What does your teaching involve?
Why don't you just ask
me what you want to know?
You can't force anyone
to do anything...
they're not willing to do.
At two of the crime scenes
witnesses saw someone
who looked like Kai
Markstein's drawing.
I'm sure you can imagine
why we might think
that you're the person
the witnesses saw.
That you're the person
I didn't kill anyone.
Do you know...
these four people?
Samir Schuchter.
Marianne Eberharter.
Tobias Dorfmeister.
Peter Lechner.
You know them.
How do you know them?
I know who you two are...
but it definitely doesn't
mean that I know you.
But it definitely doesn't
Did you kill these four people?
I didn't kill
anyone. Ms Stocker.
I'm not evil.
Is this figure familiar to you?
It's from my cave.
Why did you remove the face?
- I was angry.
- Who with?
With many people.
I carry a lot of anger inside
me. but I'm in good company.
Right?
You told us you supported
and protected Kai Markstein.
Do you see yourself as kind of like the
personification of the Virgin of Mercy?
I'll take that as a yes.
Who are you still protecting?
I protect those who
feel persecuted.
- So unselfish.
- Yes. I see justice is done.
For those who have
been harmed or wronged.
Like Jackl.
We are all part of a story.
You just as much
as me. Mr Winter.
That's why it's important
to keep the memory alive.
Because if we forget...
then it gets dangerous.
The memory of what?
Of fear.
Of helplessness.
Of the lies.
We're all connected.
Mr Winter?
What do you mean?
Learn to listen and ask
the right questions.
He knows the sequence.
he knows the victims.
He can get the names
from the newspaper.
I think the interview is bringing things
to the surface. We're making progress.
He seems to live in a
kind of isolated madness
where he and Jackl are
one and the same person.
He sees himself as
protector of an order
and as the only one aware
of its previous chaos.
And as the only one aware
We need to find something that
connects him to the victims.
Otherwise. this is
getting us nowhere.
I'm gonna lie down for a bit.
- Don't we need to give him a break too?
- He's having one now.
Wake up.
Thanks.
We found this.
These photos were on Haas's PC?
Technically. on the mail server.
Why was he sent
photos of dead people?
Because he's a sick bastard.
We've tried to find a link between Haas
and our victims. but have found nothing.
The photos could be evidence that he did
in fact sell the gun to the murderer.
It's how business is
done on the dark net.
Someone sells something. like a gun.
and gets some security in return.
In our case. the photos.
They've got something on
each other. an insurance.
One can't betray the other
without incriminating himself.
But there's even more.
I don't believe it.
Why were photos of our
victims sent to Haas?
Haas sold the gun to our killer and he
then sent him all the photos as insurance.
But if it's insurance
for the sold gun.
why was only one person
shot and not all of them?
- What has he got to do with the others?
- I can't explain it.
Can we find out who
sent the photos?
No. we can only prove that the
photos were sent to the account.
As for who sent
them. we don't know.
OK. we have to find out who the other
two dead people on the photos are.
We might have something.
- A laundry label.
- What does it say?
"SR Rosengarten."
- Retirement home?
- It's in Salzburg. We'll go there.
OK.
It's possible the shooting victim
was killed with the same gun
that was fired at Ms
Eberharter's boyfriend.
We need to try and find out
something about this dead man.
OK.
The likelihood that our
suspect is a computer expert
seems quite small to me.
What if he had someone
to get the gun for him?
Someone who's working with him.
A second killer.
A link between the two of them.
Because both Haas and our
suspect in the interview room
more or less radically
reject our social system.
More or less radically
But I see nothing in common
between their respective systems.
Anyway. we now know that there is a
link between Haas and the murders.
And the photos should be
enough for a house search.
I really don't care
what it is. Ellie.
Tell me.
Turek installed spyware on Haas's PC
for me. That's why he's now in hospital.
He doesn't want to report
it. He's mixed up in this.
We mustn't even mention
spyware in front of the judge.
- You know all about concealing things.
- Wait!
It was the same weapon.
A week ago. they forced entry into a flat
in Vienna because the corridor stank.
They found a man. executed.
He was already starting to decompose.
Must have been lying there...
for a month. probably longer.
The dead man's name
is Milan Kusev. 55.
Had been in prison for
various violent crimes.
The bullets were fired from the same gun
as the one at the Eberharter crime scene.
See if you can find anything
else linking Kusev with Haas.
Good morning.
You're still waiving
your right to a lawyer?
Do you know this man?
- Are you sure? You haven't...
- I'm sure. Ms Stocker.
And this man?
He's dead.
Murdered.
Yeah...
It happens.
- That's callous...
- No. I'm just saying.
- Mr Heller.
- Hello.
- Laurich.
- Goiginger. hi.
- How can I help you?
- Look at this.
Do you know this woman?
- Where did you get this photo?
- We presume that it was taken here.
- Looks very much like it.
- Do you know when this was?
Yes. it was...
about two months ago.
Died of heart failure.
It shocks me a little that someone
took a photo of the dead woman.
I mean. who would
do such a thing?
Was the cause of death officially
confirmed as heart failure?
What do you mean by that?
We're investigating a
murder. Mrs Laurich.
Who is this woman?
That's my mother.
- Your mother?
- Yes.
When did you last
see your mother?
- About two months ago.
- And you knew she had died?
Oh. yeah. Yeah.
Why did you take a photo
of your dead mother?
I didn't...
I didn't take a
photo of my mother.
Why would I take a
photo of my mother?
I don't know. Maybe
to remember her by.
Or for somebody else.
Mr Polt...
That's your name.
Stefan Polt.
- As I said. I have...
- many names.
I know. but let's stick
with Polt for now.
- You want to tell us about your mother?
- There's not much to say.
She was cold and unfair. and
nothing but a shell of herself
which enabled me to come back.
Our bond was cut with
the umbilical cord.
You don't cut ties with
your mother for no reason.
Do you?
You destroyed the Virgin
Mary's face in the cave.
Why this anger with your
mother? What did she do to you?
Gedeon. remember.
Did she abuse you?
Did she hurt you?
Do you recognise
that. Mr Winter?
She betrayed me.
She didn't protect
me when I needed her.
- Did you kill your mother?
- No. I didn't.
She didn't believe me.
She accused me of
something I never did.
She didn't protect me
when she should have.
She wasn't looking when
she should have been.
You recognise that too.
We're the victims. We're the ones
who had our faces scratched off.
You recognise that?
- Mr Winter!
- Stop the interview.
Gedeon?
Come on. let's go
to the hospital.
He hurt me... He
hurt me so much.
Who did?
- Gedeon?
- Leave me alone. leave me alone.
Leave me alone.
Please go. Go. go!
Go!
- Is he feeling OK?
- Like shit.
What's wrong?
- Not a word to anyone.
- That's not possible.
Wipe it from the tape.
No one must see it.
- We can't do that.
- Of course you can.
And find out everything you can
about Stefan Polt's past. Please!
I've put something on your
desk. It was handed in for you.
FOR YOU CHARLES TUREK
I think you should
show your gratitude.
I've done a lot
for you. Mr Winter.
Mrs Gössen. listen to me now.
The amount of
gratitude I've shown
is enough for at
least two lifetimes.
Is enough for at
Yours and your son's.
He's on an elephant safari
in South Africa right now.
But I'm a loyal person.
That's why I'll show
my gratitude again
by continuing to keep the
weapon well-hidden at my place.
although I'd use it
to blast your son
off the map in the
blink of an eye.
I don't care if he's hiding in
South Africa or at the South Pole.
Then he can move back in
with his brother. in prison.
- Mr Winter. I won't be threatened.
- Good.
That makes two of us.
We've got a deal.
How long will this take?
I really need to go.
We're all here now.
Thanks.
Ms Stocker. I'm sorry
for keeping you waiting.
I heard you're in a hurry.
I'll try to be brief. but you need
to give us a bit of your time.
I think I've answered all
questions on Gedeon Winter.
A few weeks ago. you asked
me to abuse my position
by suggesting I spy
on Gedeon Winter.
Understandably. I rejected
this request at the time.
No. I didn't.
OK. let's go down
a different route.
You told me about a
video showing Winter
with a weapon stolen from the
evidence room under his coat.
Is that true?
It's what I suspected
at the time...
but it turned out I was wrong.
Just for the record.
can you tell me again
what weapon it was you
suspected was under his coat?
The one that was used
to murder Yela Antic.
Could it have been this one?
Could be.
- But this type?
- Yes.
Very good.
TOGETHER FOR EVER
LOTS OF LOVE!
- Yes?
- The scumbag's alive.
Who?
Where are you? Hello?
Ellie. we've got the search
warrant for Haas's house and land.
Is everything OK?
Everything's fine.
- Have you notified Armed Response?
- Yes. I have.
You need to take care of
the search. I have to go.
- I'll be there later.
- Ellie!
Gedeon?
Gedeon!
Damn it. where are you?
Gedeon?
Yes. Stocker. I need you to
look up an address. Quickly!
For Waltraud Vucovic.
Two Vs and two Cs.
Move in.
- Police!
Room clear!
Police!
All rooms secured.
Waltraud?
Waltraud...
Come on. pour us a drink.
Waiting for me to say "please"?
OK. just to make things clear
right away. I've paid it all.
I have nothing left.
Feel free to have a look around.
- You don't remember me?
- Should I?
Do you still paint?
This isn't about money?
What is it you
want from me then?
Maybe...
you remember my mother.
Elisabeth Winter.
I'm one of the kids
from your commune.
- One of the kids?
- Yeah.
Time...
eats away at your memory.
Eats away at your memory.
We lived...
and we loved. We were free.
And we loved. We were free.
We were happy.
A wonderful. wonderful movement.
A Reichian-inspired commune
which showed...
that living together without
possessiveness works.
That living together without
Yeah.
And that two-person
relationships
and nuclear families
are worthless
and can be abolished.
Yeah. well...
you destroyed them.
You haven't a clue about life.
Our idea was almost perfect.
You're here with me now
because you didn't...
understand it.
Because you're
clueless and stupid.
You're stupid. you're
stupid. like the masses.
Am I right?
You see?
You're stuck in your
little. bourgeois life.
Where it's all about "me".
Me. me. me. me. me.
I sacrificed my
life for this idea.
I had to flee. I had
to assume a false name.
You all took my
life away from me.
You raped us.
It was...
just love.
Children.
You were all there by choice.
You could have left at any time
if it felt so wrong for you.
But you stayed.
You stayed. my friend!
You're here... with me.
You're an...
idiot
who doesn't
understand anything -
about love or about life.
And least of all about art.
Raped...
for art.
I had to flee. not you.
You ruined my life.
And for what?
Artistically. the "Sleeping
Boys" are completely worthless.
From start to
finish. they are...
mediocre works.
Do what you have to do.
You're definitely not going
in there now. Do you hear me?
You're not! Have you
solved your problem now?
Do you feel better now. you...?
Why didn't you talk to me? We could
have found a solution for everything!
Why do you always have to do
everything on your own? Why?
You won't leave
me on my own now.
We're going to put an end
to all this shit together!
Yeah?
Heller was shot.